[IAM-5169] add docs for the migration process to the new SSO (#1940)
saucelabs/sauce-docs: docs/basics/sso/migration-from-deprecated-sso.md

---
id: migration-from-deprecated-sso
title: Migration from the deprecated SSO
sidebar_label: Migration from the Deprecated SSO
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<p><span className="sauceDBlue">Enterprise Plans only</span></p>

> The following document will help you migrate smoothly from the [deprecated SSO](/basics/sso-deprecated/setting-up-single-sign-on/) to the [new SSO](/basics/sso/setting-up-sso/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide explains how to migrate from the [deprecated SSO](/basics/sso-deprecated/setting-up-single-sign-on/) to the [new SSO](/basics/sso/setting-up-sso/).
```

Author: fixed

> Before you begin the migration process, please review the differences between the two implementations, which are listed below.

Author: fixed

:::tip
Both the deprecated SSO integration and the new SSO integration can work independently and concurrently. This means that you can set up the new SSO and test it while your users continue to use the deprecated integration.

You will have access to the configuration panels of both integrations in the Team Management UI, allowing you to manage and configure them separately.
:::

> ## Differences In The New SSO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Differences In the New SSO
```

> ## Differences in the new SSO

Author: fixed

| Email Domains                     | Assign your [company email domains](/basics/sso/setting-up-sso/#email-domains) to your SSO integration at Sauce Labs to allow for provisioning of new accounts via SP-initiated flow. <br/><br/> The legacy SSO does not require email domains as it does not support SP-initiated flow.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

> | JIT Provisioning                  | In the new SSO, JIT (Just-In-Time) provisioning is enabled by default and cannot be disabled. This means that if a user from your Identity Provider (IdP) does not have a Sauce Labs account, one will be automatically created for them. <br/><br/> However, in the deprecated  SSO, it was possible to disable this feature. In such cases, it's important to note that users from the IdP who do not have accounts in Sauce Labs will still be able to provision accounts automatically. Keep this in mind during the migration process from deprecated  SSO to the new SSO. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| JIT Provisioning                  | In the new SSO, JIT (Just-In-Time) provisioning is enabled by default and cannot be disabled. This means that if a user from your Identity Provider (IdP) does not have a Sauce Labs account, one will be automatically created for them. <br/><br/> However, in the deprecated  SSO, it was possible to disable this feature. In such cases, it's important to note that users from the IdP who do not have accounts in Sauce Labs will still be able to provision accounts automatically. Keep this in mind during the migration process from deprecated SO to the new SSO. |
```

> | JIT Provisioning                  | In the new SSO, JIT (Just-In-Time) provisioning is enabled by default and cannot be disabled. This means that if a user from your Identity Provider (IdP) does not have a Sauce Labs account, one will be automatically created for them. <br/><br/> However, in the deprecated  SSO, it was possible to disable this feature. In such cases, it's important to note that users from the IdP who do not have accounts in Sauce Labs will still be able to provision accounts automatically. Keep this in mind during the migration process from deprecated  SSO to the new SSO. |

Author: fixed

> | JIT Provisioning                  | In the new SSO, JIT (Just-In-Time) provisioning is enabled by default and cannot be disabled. This means that if a user from your Identity Provider (IdP) does not have a Sauce Labs account, one will be automatically created for them. <br/><br/> However, in the legacy SSO, some organizations requested to disable this feature. In such cases, it's important to note that users from your IdP who do not have accounts in Sauce Labs will still be able to provision accounts automatically. Please keep this in mind during the migration process from legacy SSO to the new SSO. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| JIT Provisioning                  | In the new SSO, JIT (Just-In-Time) provisioning is enabled by default and cannot be disabled. This means that if a user from your Identity Provider (IdP) does not have a Sauce Labs account, one will be automatically created for them. <br/><br/> However, in the depreciated  SSO, it was possible to disable this feature. In such cases, it's important to note that users from the IdP who do not have accounts in Sauce Labs will still be able to provision accounts automatically. Keep this in mind during the migration process from deprecated  SSO to the new SSO. |
```

Author: fixed

> | JIT Provisioning                  | In the new SSO, JIT (Just-In-Time) provisioning is enabled by default and cannot be disabled. This means that if a user from your Identity Provider (IdP) does not have a Sauce Labs account, one will be automatically created for them. <br/><br/> However, in the legacy SSO, some organizations requested to disable this feature. In such cases, it's important to note that users from your IdP who do not have accounts in Sauce Labs will still be able to provision accounts automatically. Please keep this in mind during the migration process from legacy SSO to the new SSO. |

Author: fixed

> | Enforce SAML SSO                  | This [setting](/basics/sso/setting-up-sso/#enforce-saml-sso) is also present in the new SSO, but it is common to both the new SSO and the legacy SSO. When turned on, it allows authentication only via either the new SSO or the legacy SSO. When turned off, users can also log in via username and password, in addition to SSO authentication.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

Reviewer: suggest to change legacy to depreciated in all places for consistency (or depreciated to legacy if you prefer) 
```suggestion
| Enforce SAML SSO                  | This [setting](/basics/sso/setting-up-sso/#enforce-saml-sso) is also present in the new SSO, but it is common to both the new SSO and the legacy SSO. When turned on, it allows authentication only via either the new SSO or the legacy SSO. When turned off, users can also log in via username and password, in addition to SSO authentication.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
```

Author: ok, for consistency I will not use "legacy" but I thought that the word "deprecated" is more appropriate in this context than "depreciated". What do you suggest?

source: https://www.baeldung.com/cs/deprecated-vs-obsolete

Reviewer: yes, that was an autocorrect typo - this should be deprecated.

Author: fixed

## Migration Tutorial

### Prerequisites

1. Before starting the migration process, ensure that your organization is currently using the deprecated SSO integration. To confirm this, follow the steps provided in [this guide](/basics/sso-deprecated/setting-up-single-sign-on/#how-do-i-know-if-my-organization-uses-the-deprecated-sso-integration).

2. Next, on Sauce Labs click **Account**, and then click **Team Management**.

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/basics/sso/setup-sso-sp-tm-menu.png')} alt="Team Management Menu" width="300" />

2. On the **Organization Management** page, in the **ORGANIZATION SETTINGS** section, click **View Settings**.

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/basics/sso/setup-sso-sp-org-settings-btn.png')} alt="Organization Setting Button" width="800" />

3. On the **Organization Settings** page, click the **SINGLE SIGN-ON** tab.

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/basics/sso/setup-sso-sp-sso-tab.png')} alt="SSO Tab" width="400" />

> 4. If your organization is eligible for migrating to the new SSO, you will see the following banner. Please note that the migration wizard may not be enabled for your organization yet. If you don't see the banner, it means our development team is still working on enabling the migration wizard for your organization.

Reviewer: how long should the user wait to let us know that the banner is not available? Is there a timeframe or a contact for this? 
```suggestion
4. If your organization is eligible for migrating to the new SSO, you will see the following banner. Please note that the migration wizard may not be enabled for your organization yet. If you don't see the banner, it means our development team is still working on enabling the migration wizard for your organization.
```

Author: The first group (almost 300 organizations) which will go through "the seamless migration" will see the banner soon, that is I hope in two weeks. The automatic migration for other organizations (less than 100) is not yet prepared. There are some extra actions that need to be taken before these organization can be qualified for "the seamless migration". The timeframe is not yet defined.

> 4. If your organization is eligible for migrating to the new SSO, you will see the following banner. Please note that the migration wizard may not be enabled for your organization yet. If you don't see the banner, it means our development team is still working on enabling the migration wizard for your organization.

Author: fixed

> 4. If your organization is eligible for migrating to the new SSO, you will see the following banner. Please note that the migration wizard may not be enabled for your organization yet. If you don't see the banner, it means our development team is still working on enabling the migration wizard for your organization.

Author: fixed
